♪ MTV
[Cara]
Don't kill yourself
racing back to me in a blizzard.
[Jacob]
I will not allow
today to be the last time
I see your face.
I belong with my husband.
You're pregnant?
[indistinct chatter]
- Why you go home?
- Family needs me.
They're in danger.
[overlapping shouting]
I am looking
for a Crow Indian girl,
16 years old.
- Can I help you?
- [Darling] You're under arrest
for violating Montana's statute
against miscegenation.
- [exclaims]
- Hey!
[Alice]
No, no!
[sobbing]
How much trouble are they in?
Well, the marriage is void.
It's that fucking Whitfield.
He's gonna knock all
your chess pieces off the board.
[Ellie] When you lay down
with dogs, Banner,
you stand up with fleas.
All our lives we've had nothing.
Now we have something,
and it ain't fleas.
♪ slow, solemn music
***
[Elsa] Only fire has
a more disruptive effect
upon the order of the forest
than a blizzard.
Whole herds of cattle
and buffalo and elk
will wander maddening circles
until the snowdrifts cover them
and they are frozen in place.
The blizzard drives man
and animal both mad with hunger
and cold and the disorienting
nature of no sun or moon,
which is to say no direction,
no compass to guide movement
or reason.
You're not using the house.
Better I'm with my family
in the winter.
Logic would suggest
moving the family to town
rather than you to the family
in a sod house frozen with snow.
I don't trust town.
Don't trust that sheriff either.
Sits too deep
in Dutton's pocket.
I suppose someone must
watch after the flock.
Too much folly
for a boy and a woman.
Got no flock anymore.
They got flukes.
Killed them all.
[laughing]
Look at all you sacrificed
and suffered
to protect sheep.
You killed men
and almost died yourself.
And all it took was a worm
to destroy everything
you fought for.
Livestock isn't a business,
Banner.
It's the toil of peasants.
It should be left to them.
You are no peasant. Not anymore.
Snow should begin
melting next month.
We'll dig another shaft.
Worms...
don't kill gold.
It's immune to drought
and to winter,
and its demand is endless.
That is a business.
Stop the car.
What the hell are they doing?
Some
of the Norwegian miners asked
if they could ski the mountain.
I didn't see the harm in it,
at least not for us.
I figured if they want
to kill themselves
on the side of a mountain,
so be it.
You must take me to them.
Now!
Banner, hurry!
I don't see the hurry.
It's just a bunch
of drunk blokes teasing death.
You don't see the hurry because
you don't have vision, Banner.
Get in the car.
I'll show you some.
[engine starts]
♪ gentle, hopeful music
***
[indistinct chatter]
[exhales]
[Jacob sighs]
It's close enough.
Let's go have a word
with that judge.
Well, you know him, Jake.
That could go two ways.
Well, it could go
two ways out here.
[Jack]
Well, what do you want me to do?
Stay here
and don't start any fights.
We'll be back.
[sighs]
[sniffs]
[knocking]
- Yeah.
- [door opens]
[secretary]
Sheriff McDowell
and Commissioner Dutton
here to see you.
- Show 'em in.
- Yes, sir.
- Gentlemen.
- Thank you.
[Garrett]
Morning, gentlemen.
There's some coffee here
if you want some.
[McDowell]
No, thank you, Roy.
[Jacob]
I'll have some.
[Garrett] Thought gunfighters
didn't drink coffee.
Makes their hand too shaky.
I try not
to shoot at men so far away
that the shake matters.
[chuckles softly] Ca-Can't
ever tell when he's joking.
He's not joking.
What can I do for you?
[McDowell]
People v. Davis.
I don't have that on my docket.
Woman in holding
for miscegenation.
Ah. You mean Asami Ashikaga.
Alice Davis is the falsified
name on the marriage license.
She's married to my wagon boss.
She's not married at all.
State doesn't recognize
their marriage.
[McDowell] They enter a plea
at the arraignment?
[Garrett]
There's no plea.
She was cohabitating
with a Caucasian man.
Has two children with the man
and a marriage license.
She's guilty.
Only thing
to decide is the sentence.
And what did you decide?
It's a quandary, Jake.
Haven't figured it out yet.
If I send the flapper to prison,
then the children stay
in an orphanage
at the state's expense.
And if I deport her, they still
stay at the state's expense
because
those mongrels were born here.
They're U.S. citizens.
Husband is invalid
at the county hospital.
Again, at the state's expense.
Well, I can solve your quandary.
Why don't you just remit them
to my custody?
All of 'em.
Won't cost the state a dime.
- All of them?
- The flapper,
the mongrels,
the invalid, the whole bunch.
What of their flophouse in town?
They'll live at the ranch.
And stay there? Yes?
I'm quite sure
they've had their fill of town.
[clears throat] In that case,
they'll be sentenced
to supervised probation
in your custody.
To be seen in public
in the county together is
a violation of their probation
and will result
in their immediate transfer
- to the county jail.
- Understood.
Provided they identify the
offending priest to the court.
The signature is
conveniently illegible.
Well, it sounds like
you need a handwriting expert.
Can't release her
till I have his identity.
You've known me
for a long time, Roy.
This is about as far
as I care to be pushed.
Threatening a judge, Jake?
Threats have a level
of uncertainty
that comes with them.
I don't make the laws
of this land.
I preside over the consequences
of their violation.
You're married to a Crow woman.
Two states over,
that law applies to you,
and you're the one being judged.
Guess it's a good thing
I live in Montana.
[scoffs softly]
[sniffs]
Oh, my.
Put that back.
[chuckles]
[Jacob] We'll tell you the name
of the preacher
when you give us the name
of your liquor contact.
How does that sound?
You know, Roy, maybe we ought
to wander on over to my office
and... have a little chat
about this.
This is blackmail.
Hmm.
What do I care
about some mongrel family?
You think you won something?
You haven't won a thing.
There ain't no winner
among us on this deal, Roy.
Not one.
[door closes]
♪ majestic orchestral music
***
[wind howling]
[shivering breaths]
♪ intriguing music
***
[gasping softly]
[animal snarling]
[growling]
[barking]
[Elizabeth grunting]
[growling]
♪ intense music
***
[screams]
[growling]
[grunts]
[barking]
[panting]
No! No!
[growling]
- [gunshot]
- [whimpers]
[gasping]
Damn things are everywhere
this winter.
He get you good?
People shouldn't be here
in the winter!
Most ain't. The livestock
don't feed themselves.
[panting]
The only thing getting fed
around here is the wolves.
Let me grab you a buggy.
I'll get you to the house.
[pained grunt]
♪ ominous music
***
[hinge creaks]
[sighs]
[chuckles]
Wishful thinking.
An icebox in the house.
[chuckles]
What a day that will be.
[knife clatters]
- What happened?
- Wolf bit her.
He was in the chicken coop.
Let's get her inside.
Go.
Spade, run. Fetch Dr. Miller.
It's not that bad.
A wolf moving about folks
during the day
is either wounded or rabid.
He didn't move
like he was wounded.
Killed every chicken we got.
[Cara] What are you doing
still standing here?
If the thing is rabid,
you're racing time.
Storm's coming, ma'am.
It looks to be a bad one.
All the more reason to hurry.
Let's have a look at it.
- [hisses]
- Does it hurt?
Mm-hmm. Hurts when you do that.
Here.
[Elizabeth whimpers]
[groans softly]
That hurts.
I swear, girl.
Mother of God,
if it weren't for bad luck,
you'd have none at all.
I suppose the good Lord decided
giving you that face
was all the favors
you were getting. [chuckles]
He can have the face back
if it keeps me
from getting shot at
and bit by wolves,
everything else
He's thrown at me.
I think that face
is worth the trouble, darling.
[groans]
♪ gentle orchestral music
***
Oh. Uh, apologies, sir.
Uh, w-we were told
it's okay, um...
- We meant no harm.
- Explain it to me.
Skiing. Explain it.
Oh, um...
W-We, uh, we learned
in-in the army.
[sighs]
How do you do it?
Oh. Oh, well, um...
[speaking Norwegian]
You stand and, uh, lean forward,
you bend at the knee.
Then you control your speed
by going side to side.
Keep the uphill edge of your ski
into the snow.
It's the closest thing to flying
a man can feel.
Is it difficult to learn?
You spend the first couple
of days, uh, on your ass,
but... after that, it's...
Our body figures out
the motion,
and it's easy, it's like
riding a horse or a bike.
But I can teach you,
if you want.
I don't have the patience for
two days on my ass, thank you.
Can children learn it?
Oh, children pick it up
the quickest.
I think, um, I think
most everyone can do it.
My grandma does it.
Well...
[grunts]
...if you change your mind, sir,
I'm, I'm happy to teach you.
[speaks Norwegian]
Seems a silly way
to waste the day to me.
Does it now?
How many gunfights you been in?
My fair share.
How many bar fights?
More than I can count.
And after, how did you feel?
Alive, which was the goal.
But you liked it.
Tell the truth.
You liked the danger of it.
It gets your blood up, aye.
Aye.
Well, your rancher aside,
it's a rich man's world now.
And everyone gets a taste.
The paper man,
the tradesman, the car salesman,
the doctor, the lawyer.
The one thing
you cannot buy in a store
is the euphoria of peril,
the exhilaration of danger.
I can sell that.
For a fortune.
♪ sweeping orchestral music
***
Whoa, whoa.
Not sure we can beat this
back to the ranch.
Well, I don't want to risk
another night in town.
I'll take my chances
on the storm.
Should have brought
the covered wagon.
It's gonna be a hard trip
on Alice and the kids.
After what they've been through,
I'm sure they won't mind
the trip one little bit.
♪ sorrowful music
***
Zane, we're taking
your family home.
They've been released. You, too.
A bed's my only future.
I can't stand for more
than a minute
before God sticks
a knife in my brain
and I'm throwing up my guts.
They have anybody
to look you over?
Doctor, surgeon? Anybody?
They ain't had no one
look me over.
Well, we'll get you out of here.
I can't walk.
Go to the sheriff
and get the family.
Come on back here,
we'll load up Zane and...
get him home.
We'll get you fixed up
in no time.
You'll see.
[sighs]
Town's always left us alone.
Don't know why they care now.
'Cause Whitfield
told 'em to care.
Chopping us down one by one.
Come spring...
...gonna do some chopping
of our own.
If there's any of us left.
♪ pastoral music
***
It must have been
quite the hunt you were on.
Took all night.
I don't see any meat.
We fell asleep by the river.
[Runs His Horse groans,
speaks Crow]
I hate it when that happens.
We ran into a cowboy yesterday.
Thought it was best to stay put.
A cowboy?
[Pete]
Looking for strays.
He said this isn't a rez.
It's a ranch.
This is where Quanah Parker
lost the cavalry every time
they chased him.
Right here.
This is his homeland.
Ain't his homeland anymore.
Cowboy said Quanah's people
moved a hundred miles north
and to the east.
He didn't seem to mind
we was here.
He said we was welcome.
Cowboys don't own land.
Ranchers own land.
I doubt this rancher
would welcome us.
We should move.
I like it here.
What makes
the Comanche reservation
any different than ours?
They got schools there, too.
And priests.
And police.
Maybe we take our chances
with the cowboys.
Maybe we help them
look for strays
in exchange for staying.
One man looking
has bad odds of finding any.
[sighs]
Maybe.
I'll pick up
his tracks on the river.
I'll find his camp.
And I'll see
if I can find his rancher.
♪ mysterious music
***
Stay hidden until I get back.
♪ pulsing, dramatic music ♪
***
- Yes.
- [door opens]
Understood.
I-I'll let the marshal know.
Thank you.
Uh, can I help you, gentlemen?
Marshal Kent.
I need to speak with the marshal
assigned to this post.
One moment.
[door opens]
Follow me, please.
Have a seat, gentlemen.
Where are you in from?
Montana.
It's a long way from home.
Montana is my post.
It is not my home.
Is there a marshal present
who does fieldwork?
Just the one you're looking at.
You patrol this territory,
serving warrants,
making arrests?
Why do I find that
hard to believe?
'Cause you're a bigot
living in the wrong century,
Marshal.
I doubt you traveled
from Montana to question
my ability to serve this badge.
You need something.
And if you have any hopes
of getting it,
you'll ask for it now, before
I throw you out of my office.
You mind that mouth,
woman, before--
Mademoiselle.
We seek
a murderer
who we believe has fled
to the Comanche Nation.
Which one?
Murder?
[Renaud]
Mm-hmm. At least five.
- [Mamie] Quite the savage.
- [Renaud] Two nuns...
...and three priests.
Seems hard to believe,
looking at her.
[Kent]
The child's guilt
is not in question.
She stabbed the nuns
in their sleep.
She shotgunned the priests
when she joined up
with her gang.
- Gang?
- [Thomas] Renegades
from the Crow Agency.
You take this to Esther
in the front.
She's an accomplished
sketch artist.
We can print your posters.
We'll start putting 'em out.
Comanche only respect that badge
if it respects them back.
Many a marshal's found their way
into a pine box
learning that lesson.
Tread lightly, Marshal.
This is not Montana.
Clearly.
[door opens]
[door closes]
I need a sketch of this girl.
This one.
♪ dramatic music
***
♪ soaring music
[speaks Italian]
We must carry these ashore.
Load these on the dolly.
Take these.
Come with us.
[jazz band warming up softly]
***
[indistinct chatter]
Cugino.
[Maceo and Luca
speaking Italian]
[kissing]
[Italian conversation continues]
Okay.
Luca says, uh,
you like to fight.
I wouldn't say that.
What would you say, then?
I guess I'd say
I keep running into people
looking for trouble.
And they all think
trouble is me.
[soft chuckle]
I suffer the same predicament.
But he also say
you saved his life.
Yeah, well,
he ran into one of those people.
Know what I mean?
Everywhere, those people.
Yes, they are.
[exhales]
You did a good thing.
He was worth saving.
Tonight we celebrate you.
[speaking Italian]
Sì, signore.
Hungry?
I could eat.
With me.
When he's done eating,
take him to the Galvez.
[chatter in Italian]
[opera playing faintly]
[lively chatter]
What is that?
Mm.
Mm-hmm.
Oh, no, no, no, no. Mm.
Capisce?
Mmm.
I need a telegraph office.
Hotel has phones.
Phone won't do me any good.
I need a telegraph office.
You can send a wire
from the hotel.
I'm ready.
Finish your meal.
There is no rush.
There's no rush for you.
For me everything's a rush.
Andiamo.
♪ optimistic music
***
Thank you.
- Where's the train station?
- Mainland.
How far is the walk?
Signore Maceo said
to escort you to the room
and then to the Hollywood.
When Signore Maceo
asks you to do something,
you must do exactly
the thing that he asks.
I already ate.
I don't need another meal.
You had lunch.
The Hollywood is for dinner.
Signore Maceo is showing you
great hospitality.
To refuse him is an insult.
[blows landing]
[grunting]
♪ suspenseful music ♪
***
[tires screech]
[gun clicking empty]
You're lucky he wants you alive.
[grunting]
[train whistle blowing]
[coughing]
[grunts]
Who's looking
for trouble now, hmm?
I gave you food,
the finest suite
in the finest hotel in the city.
Had planned for you
a splendid night
only to show you gratitude.
Look how you repay
my hospitality.
I never asked for it
and I don't want it.
I am needed in Montana.
My family is in danger.
My wife is lost to me.
And I don't have time
for hospitality.
Yes.
The lion hunter
who leaves Africa
for America to hunt men instead.
For your family, huh?
That's what Luca says.
It's a war over land.
My family's land.
And they're losing it.
I know that war.
My family already lost it.
Still we have a problem,
you and me.
You showed me disrespect.
And disrespect is contagious
if not dealt in the moment
it appears.
[sighs]
So you must go away.
Seems that you wish that anyway.
[Maceo speaks Italian]
[Angelo speaks Italian]
[speaks Italian]
Angelo seemed to be
worried about trusting you.
- [chuckles]
- If I was Angelo,
I wouldn't trust you either,
judging by his face.
But a man with a cause
can always be trusted
to do the very thing
that helps his cause.
I'm going to give
that thing to you.
You think you have time
to discuss that?
Yeah, I got time for that.
♪ majestic orchestral music
***
[horse whinnies]
I can't see a thing!
Take it to the pines!
Get moving, boys.
Whoa.
We gonna picket the horses?
Asses to the wind.
We got to flip the wagon!
***
Ready?
Get under it.
[all grunting]
Get everybody under the wagon.
They're gonna be froze to death
by the time this storm passes.
Zane's family can't
make the walk.
Neither can Zane.
I worry
they're walking either way.
They'll just go to lower ground
to get out of this.
We'll just follow their tracks.
What tracks?
[horse neighs]
[grunts]
***
Okay, here's where we all
get to know each other
real good.
Snuggle up,
shoulder to shoulder.
***
[clattering]
[shivering breaths]
Apologies for tracking in
half the storm, Cara.
Snow on the floor
doesn't concern me, Dr. Miller.
Hi.
Ooh. [exhales]
- Got you pretty good.
- Ah! Yeah.
I worry the wolf was rabid,
was moving about during the day.
No fear of man.
More likely a young wolf run off
from the pack and starving,
but, um, we'll take no chances.
Wh-Where does that go?
Well, it goes
right in your belly.
We need to do this 12 times
over the next ten days.
I'm afraid this storm
has made us houseguests
for the evening, Mrs. Dutton, so
I'll give her another shot
in the morning
and leave you with a vaccine
to administer the next ten.
Now, if you'll lift
your dress, please.
No, no, you're not
putting that in my stomach.
I'll take my chances
with the rabies.
There are no chances
with rabies.
It is fatal every time.
But you don't even know
if it was rabid.
It's a chance we can't take.
Uh, I said no.
Hold her.
No! I said...
[gasps]
Let go of me! No!
No! Stop!
- I said no!
- Spade...
- Let go of me!
- Sorry, ma'am.
It's for your own good.
Let go of my legs!
No! No!
No. No.
I said no.
- I know it hurts.
- [screams]
[crying]
But it beats the alternative.
♪ dramatic music
***
[panting]
[crying]
I'll get a room made up for you,
Dr. Miller.
Would you mind sharing with me?
Oh, don't trouble yourself.
I'm fine on the sofa.
I'll get some blankets.
Mr. Dutton isn't here?
No, he went to town.
Hope he had the sense
to stay there.
So do I.
[Elizabeth crying]
♪ somber music
***
This is too much.
It's too much.
I love him,
but this isn't living.
This is surviving.
Barely at that.
Winter is always hard.
And this one has been
harder than most.
But then the spring comes.
And there is nothing so splendid
as the mountains in the spring.
Wait. Wait till you see it.
I won't be here to see it.
When the storm passes,
I'm going home.
[crying]
♪ dramatic music
***
[jazz music playing]
Whiskey, if you please.
Leave it to the Scots to ride
out the storm in a saloon.
I don't need some Dutton
seeing us together.
You with that badge
on your chest.
No Duttons in town to see us.
No one in here to see us at all.
Except the bartender.
That memory fades with a tip.
You a religious man?
No less than the next, I guess.
I've called on Him
when I needed.
Still breathing,
so I guess He listened.
You?
I believe...
I'm a sinner who will never see
the gates of heaven.
But I believe they exist.
Whitfield can look at a mountain
and see the gold deep inside it.
He saw those Vikings sliding
down the mountainside
like otters making fools
of themselves...
and he sees a business in it,
sees a fortune in it.
A man of vision.
There's no vision.
He sees through us.
Sees the greed in our hearts.
I've never met a man
who scares me.
Not once in my life, until now.
The man scares me, Clyde.
He fucking scares me to death.
♪ ominous music
[Kent]
"Republicans plan to introduce
the Indian Citizenship Act
to Congress.
The law would grant citizenship
to all Indians
born in the territorial
United States."
Why the fuck would they do that?
It is the inevitable result
of their assimilation.
What?
Well...
[sighs]
...if we wish them to abandon
their pagan ways,
we must offer
the reward of equality.
But you want Indians to vote,
marry our women?
Oh, they're your women,
all of them?
- To choose their own fate--
- Don't feed me your bullshit,
Father, I've seen the graveyard
in your backyard.
I know what you think
of Indians.
You know what I think
of Indians who resist
their own evolution, but...
...to those who accept it
I show only love.
[scoffs]
You don't see the danger in it?
No, I see no danger in it.
So I suppose you'd just let
Black men marry white women.
Well, they do so in France,
and it has caused no calamities.
You can marry
outside your race in France?
Well, the south of France was
ruled by Black men at one time,
as was Spain and Italy.
Black men ruled Europe?
For 800 years.
Part of that empire
still exists today.
It's called Andalusia,
and it truly has
some of the most...
magnificent architecture
in the world.
[marshals laughing]
It's true.
[laughter continues]
[Thomas coughing]
[arrow whooshes]
[grunts]
- Oh, Jesus.
- [Thomas gasping]
- Father!
- What?
Get up, get the fuck up!
[arrows whooshing]
[grunting]
They're gonna try
to draw us out,
and then they'll charge.
We wait until they do.
I am a man of the cloth.
I'd say these sons of bitches
are resisting evolution, Father.
Now take the fucking gun.
- [arrow whooshes]
- Take the fucking gun.
[Natives whooping]
- [arrow whooshes]
- [Renaud panting]
[whooping]
[shouting indistinctly]
Now.
[Natives shouting, whooping]
[Renaud screaming]
- [gun clicking empty]
- [continues screaming]
♪ intense music ♪
***
[Renaud panting]
♪ melancholy music
***
Don't worry, Father.
The penitent man shall pass.
All you got to do...
[grunting]
...is ask for forgiveness.
[passengers screaming]
[Alex]
Dear Spencer,
I have begun my journey
to find you.
To bring you the life
growing inside me,
the child that shall bear
your name.
[hyperventilating]
I thirst for the moment
I look in your eyes
and you pull me close
and we make another and another,
a little army of us.
[screaming]
This is the dream
that fuels me to you.
It is my only thought,
my only desire.
Your eyes upon me,
your arms around me,
and our bodies pressed together
as if they are one.
***
[Luca]
An adventure this will be.
[Maceo]
Stick to the roads
marked on the maps.
Those are the only roads
I control.
Send Luca back on the train.
Truck is yours
if you can make it.
I know what it's like
to lose your home.
Maybe now you can get back
in time to save it.
For the police
who can be bribed.
And for the police... who can't.
Get my whiskey to Fort Worth.
Luca comes back with the money,
we shake hands
next time we meet.
[engine starts]
♪ atmospheric music
***
[wind whooshing]
[clattering]
- [thud]
- [woman screams]
[clattering continues]
♪ eerie music
[clattering]
[wind whistling]
[Elsa] Hell is described
as rivers of fire
and canyons of coal and ash.
Perhaps it is taught that way
because the people of Palestine
and Israel cannot comprehend
the merciless, loveless nature
of cold.
To the mountain people,
hell is a river frozen
with canyon walls of ice
and bitter air that ruptures
lungs and rapes your sanity.
Hell is winter,
and winter is here
to ravage all of us.
[wolf growling]
- [gunshot]
- [Cara screams]
♪ ominous music
***
♪ haunting music